[Music]
Wow
ships nowadays are so huge that you
can't help wondering how do these
enormous chunks of metal not sink the
moment they leave the harbor and leave a
big hole in the surface and why do they
rule making some passengers sick so many
questions and here are so many answers
why
how do ships even stay afloat ships are
massive both in size and weight made of
hardened steel and yet they're roaming
the water like they can't be bothered
about the laws of nature
the thing is the shape of the ship
allows it to push on water and displace
a certain volume of it at the same time
this displaced water is pushing back up
on the ship and keeps it afloat this
effect is called buoyancy not at all
similar to girl and say yeah I made that
up too why ships don't capsize on the
waves in the ocean waves can range from
15 to 30 feet tall even without a storm
when a wave hits a ship it can tilt and
the center of its gravity shifts the
ship immediately tries to balance again
and stay in a vertical line with
buoyancy that pushes the ship up this is
also why ships roll from side to side on
ways mm-hmm excuse me they just try to
find balance but keep getting pushed by
the waves 3 but why don't ships roll all
the time their ships will mostly roll
when their stabilizers are off or
damaged stabilizers on most ships are a
pair of fins with sensors that catch the
motion of the water around them and
change the position of the fins fins
stand in the way of rolling motion of
the ship and make it stand upright
despite the waves the ship is also more
stable when it moves forward since it's
harder to strike off balance when it's
already in motion for
what's that big hump on the nose of the
ship that sits underwater this thing is
called a bulbous bow some of nicknamed
it a Jimmy Durante Hey look them up and
believe it or not ships would be even
slower without it it's made to cut into
the water and displace it to the sides
and reduce drag not only does it make
the ship faster it also lowers fuel
consumption 5-why anchors are shaped the
same way and why are they effective and
we're not talking about newsreaders here
the anchor itself helps only to keep the
ship around one place in reality it's
the weight of the chain that keeps the
ship more stable during the stop
if waves are high the crew will
typically release more length of a chain
because this way it'll be heavier
workers are always shaped with the same
ID in mind it must have a sturdy main
body called a shank and a pair of hooks
called flukes
flukes allow the anchor to attach itself
to the seabed and that's no floating 6y
only ice breakers can go through the ice
icebreaker ships are unique in having a
rounded bow that is designed to get on
top of the ice and break it by the mass
of the ship the whole hull of an ice
breaker is quite special it's a double
hull made so it's easy to maintain and
replace parts on the go this is why
normal ships can't be a sturdy the
double haul is too heavy it would reduce
the carrying weight and the rounded bow
is not that useful in going through
waves 7 what's that strange sign always
painted on the hull of the ship the main
part of this sign is in horizontal lines
they show how low the ship will sit in
the water with a certain weight on board
the bigger the mass the more it pushes
down on water and the more water the
ship needs to displace to stay afloat
the highest line indicates the lowest a
ship can sit without a noticeable
concern
about the ship's stability 8 why is the
lower part of the ship often painted red
in fact it could be any color but the
paint is still really special this paint
is made specifically to keep barnacle
seaweed and worms out of the surface of
the hall these organisms love to attach
themselves to ship salts which can be
damaging but will also most certainly
increase drag and slow the ship down the
paint contains a strong bias I and most
often the component of bronze is used
the red color is a nod to the fact that
bronze naturally looks around 9 what are
the life conditions of a ship's crew
short answer surprisingly good but it
mostly depends on the size of the ship
and the wealth of a company that owns it
larger ships normally have separate
cabins with a comfortable bed a wardrobe
a table and sometimes even personal
showers there are a lot of ships that
have TVs in every cabin and a cinema
room as well as a gym and an internet
cafe crew members also have Wi-Fi but
it's limited to a small amount of
traffic per day 10 what will you never
see on a cruise ship the crew of a
cruise ship lives a bit more modest life
if you compare it to how guests spend
their time but they have their secrets
in advantages every cruise ship is
riddled with pathways and rooms you'll
never see as a guest they help to get
from one place to another quickly and
they're protected by codes each one
changes monthly and is unique for this
particular ship the world beyond these
doors is a secret but some crew members
tell that parties in this world are wild
eleven what is the biggest ship in the
world
the largest cruise ship in the world is
the symphony of the Seas
it's almost 1200 feet long and weighs
around 230,000 times it has theaters
cinema lots of restaurants an amusement
park and the biggest sea slide in the
world but the largest ship ever is far
more man
it's Prelude FLNG or floating liquefied
natural gas platform it displaces around
600,000 tons of water and is 1600 feet
long just like some of the biggest
skyscrapers in the world 12 how does
small tugboats tug huge ships tugboats
may be small but their engines and
propellers are huge for their size a
massive ship will need several tugboats
to move it faster but even one will be
enough eventually in the water the
accumulated motion is far more important
simply put even if you stand on a pier
and try to move a big ship it will
eventually but it'll just take some time
13 what are some of the weirdest ship
designs
Bokke vanguard is just a weird ship like
that it's a true heavy lifter a
semi-submersible dock ship that
transports bigger ships across the sea
from one dock to another when they're
still not ready to go out on their own
it can transport any ship or oil and gas
facility with a mass of up to 110
thousand tons another good ship for a
nomination is the RAM for Titan it looks
like someone just cut off the front side
of some giant ship in practice it's a
seismic research vessel and one of the
widest ships in the world about as wide
as the wingspan of a Boeing 747 14 how
do ships communicate with each other
without radio when a ship gets in
trouble in the middle of the ocean and
can't send a distress signal
it still has a way to communicate
through flags for example the scariest
flag one can see on the ship is the flag
with yellow and black checkers like on a
taxi sign it means that the ship is on
quarantine and no one can leave it by
any means and neither should anyone come
close to the ship blue and white stripes
mean that the ships caught fire and
transports dangerous stuff so you know
stay away and a flag with a big blue
pacifier on it means there are small
grubby babies on board who refuse to
take their naps are very grumpy
crying uncontrollably another reason to
stay away just kidding
hey if you learned something new today
then give the video a like and share
with a friend and here are some other
cool videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life
small grubby babies on bow